# Simple-AI-Project

There are 3 different Python programs, using Streamlit:
1. Vacation Planner (Genetic Algorithm)
2. Vaccine Distribution Modelling (Constraint Satisfaction Problem)
3. Loan Application Modelling (Classification & Cluster Analysis)

## Vacation Planner

Heroku deployment: https://vacation-planner-q1.herokuapp.com/

**Genetic Algorithm** is used to plan the vacation.

User inputs for vacation scenario according these parameters:
- Money on-hand
- Vacation duration
- Hotel star rating
- Number of tourist spot
- Tourist spot fee
- Food price
- Transportation fees
- Transport frequency

In formulating the Genetic Algorithm, I create a fitness function that could fit the problem domain. Firstly, each individual of initial population is generated by generating 4 random numbers in which their sum is equal to the total budget of vacation (fixed sum). The fitness function is designed to compare the values of scenario's parameters and the values in individual. When compared, their absolute value of difference is incremented into the score. Hence, an individual with lower score obtained from fitness function has a better fitness, which means that it is closer to the desired scenario. Fitness values are being recorded for each generation and compared to obtain the best and also the average value.

Some values specified in program:
- Population size: 200
- Number of generation: 700
- Elements in individual: 0 - Total tourist spot fees; 1 - Total transport fees; 2 - Total food prices; 3 - Total hotel fees

3 different selection, mutation and crossover methods are performed. As for selection, I modify the values of retain, which is the percentage to select from the population to form parents. For example, method 1 uses retain value of 0.1, method 2 uses retain value of 0.2 and method 3 uses retain value of 0.3. As for mutation, varied mutate probability are applied; method 1 uses 0.01, method 2 uses 0.04 and method 3 uses 0.07. Mutation and Crossover have their own functions to decide the execution. 

## Vaccine Distribution Modelling

Heroku deployment: https://vaccine-distribution-q2.herokuapp.com/

In this program, **Constraint Satisfaction Problem** is used to formulate the ways to distribute 3 types of vaccines to different vaccination centres which are located in different states. Each states and centres have their own max capacities. To solve this question, we applied the technique of CSP at 2 parts:
- Constraint the number of different vaccination centres for each state, according to the max capacity.
- Constraint the number of vaccines (3 types) distributed to each vaccination centre.

We formulated the problem of assigning vaccination centres' number to each state, and repeated for all 5 states. We made sure that the generated combinations of vaccination centres will result in a total capacity of not exceeding the state's max capacity. A function called cr_constraint() satisfies it. After that, we further work towards selecting a single combination of vaccination centres as the best solution. This is first done by finding the value of highest capacity that is achieved within the constraint (highest utilization). There might be more than one solutions that achieve this highest value. Hence, we further filter them by the lowest rental cost per day.

Next important part of this program is where we work on each vaccination centre types (CR-1, CR-2, CR-3,...). The second constraint is on the number of each vaccine types being distributed to the targeted centre. Initially, we used the total capacity of the centre as a range to generate Vac-A, Vac-B and Vac-C. However, we constraint these values to be as follows: Vac-A > 0.05 of the total capacity, Vac-C > 0.25 of the total capacity and Vac-B > Vac-C. This is to ensure that the vaccines are appropriately distributed for all ages. This time, we choose the best solution by taking the solution with highest value for age 35-60 (the majority age group). At the end of each state's calculation, we determine the estimated number of days required to complete all vaccination of that particular state. This is done by taking the maximum day among the respective days required for Vac-A, Vac-B and Vac-C, since all of them are having different amount and hence will have different timing to be completely distributed.

## Loan Application Modelling

Heroku deployment: https://loan-application-q3.herokuapp.com/

In this program, 2 **classification** and 1 **cluster analysis** are implemented on the dataset from *Bank_CreditScoring.csv*.
- For classification, we perform Binary Classification and Multiclass Classification using Keras Sequential Model. Convolutional Neural Network is used, which is a supervised type of machine learning.
- For cluster analysis, we choose the K-Means clustering method.

### Binary Classification

We perform Binary Classification using Keras Sequential Model. Binary Classification predicts categorical variables — where the output is restricted to two classes. We choose this model in order to perform classification on the Decision variable. Decision has 2 possible outcomes, which are "Accept" and "Reject", and they can be represented by 0 and 1.
- Independent variable: all columns except for Decision
- Dependent variable: Decision

### Multiclass Classification

The second classification is Multiclass Classification using Sequential Keras Model. Multiclass Classification is used for more than two classes, where it can classify input instances into one of the multiple classes. This is suitable for us on the task to classify score of the bank credit. In the known dataset, score has a total of 4 classes: 6, 7, 8 and 9. In this model, we classify score based on the loan amount, in which both are numerical.
- Independent variable: Loan Amount
- Dependent variable: Score

### K-Means Clustering

K-means is an unsupervised technique that is usually applied on numerical data to identify clusters of data objects in a dataset. We choose this method because it guarantees convergence, easy and fast to implement.
- First variable: Loan Amount
- Second variable: Monthly Salary
